# vars
let exitNode1 0
let exitNode2 63
let graphSize 64

let baseLat 0.2
let targetLinks n0 n63

# nodes
for n in 0..{graphSize} do def n{n} {nextRealHost}

# edges
connect n0 n1 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n2 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n3 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n4 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n5 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n6 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n7 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n8 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n9 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n10 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n11 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n12 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n13 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n14 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n15 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n16 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n17 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n18 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n19 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n20 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n21 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n22 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n23 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n24 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n25 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n26 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n27 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n28 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n29 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n30 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n31 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n32 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n33 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n34 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n35 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n36 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n37 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n38 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n39 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n40 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n41 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n42 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n43 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n44 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n45 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n46 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n47 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n48 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n49 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n50 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n51 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n52 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n53 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n54 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n55 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n56 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n57 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n58 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n59 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n60 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n61 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n62 n63 {baseLat}ms

set-bandwidth all 100mbps

# build
build-network
