# vars
let exitNode1 0
let exitNode2 63
let graphSize 64
let baseLat 0.2

# nodes
for n in 0..{graphSize} do def n{n} {nextRealHost}

# edges
connect n0 n2 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n4 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n6 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n8 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n10 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n12 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n14 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n16 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n18 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n20 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n22 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n24 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n26 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n28 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n30 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n32 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n34 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n36 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n38 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n40 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n42 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n44 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n46 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n48 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n50 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n52 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n54 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n56 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n58 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n60 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n62 {baseLat}ms
connect n0 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n1 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n3 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n5 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n7 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n9 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n11 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n13 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n15 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n17 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n19 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n21 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n23 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n25 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n27 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n29 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n31 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n33 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n35 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n37 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n39 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n41 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n43 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n45 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n47 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n49 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n51 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n53 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n55 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n57 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n59 n63 {baseLat}ms
connect n61 n63 {baseLat}ms

set-bandwidth all 10mbps

# build
build-network
